K8SPSMDB-559 make better explanations in TLS doc (#893)
percona/percona-server-mongodb-operator: source/TLS.rst

.. contents:: :local:

.. _tls.certs.certmanager:

Install and use the *cert-manager*
====================================

About the *cert-manager*
------------------------

> A `cert-manager <https://cert-manager.io/docs/>`_ is a Kubernetes certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cert-manager <https://cert-manager.io/docs/>`_ is a Kubernetes certificate
```

by the same :abbr:`CA (Certificate authority)`.

Self-signed issuer allows you to deploy and use the Percona
Operator without creating a cluster issuer separately.

Installation of the *cert-manager*
----------------------------------

The steps to install the *cert-manager* are the following:

* create a namespace,
* disable resource validations on the cert-manager namespace,
* install the cert-manager.

The following commands perform all the needed actions:

.. code:: bash

   $ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v{{{certmanagerrecommended}}}/cert-manager.yaml --validate=false

After the installation, you can verify the *cert-manager* by running the
following command:

.. code:: bash

   $ kubectl get pods -n cert-manager

The result should display the *cert-manager* and webhook active and running:

.. code:: text

   NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   cert-manager-7d59dd4888-tmjqq              1/1     Running   0          3m8s
   cert-manager-cainjector-85899d45d9-8ncw9   1/1     Running   0          3m8s
   cert-manager-webhook-84fcdcd5d-697k4       1/1     Running   0          3m8s

> Now, whenever you :ref:`check certificates for expiration<tls.certs.update.check>`,
> you will find that they are valid and short-term.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you create the database with the Operator, it will automatically trigger 
cert-manager to create certificates. Whenever you :ref:`check certificates for expiration<tls.certs.update.check>`,
you will find that they are valid and short-term.
```

   ``my-cluster-name-ssl-internal`` by default):

   .. code:: bash

      $ kubectl get certificate

   You will have the following response:

   .. code:: text

      NAME                           READY   SECRET                         AGE
      my-cluster-name-ssl            True    my-cluster-name-ssl            49m
      my-cluster-name-ssl-internal   True    my-cluster-name-ssl-internal   49m

#. Optionally you can also check that the certificates issuer is up and running:

   .. code:: bash

      $ kubectl get issuer

   The response should be as follows:

   .. code:: text

      NAME                       READY   AGE
      my-cluster-name-psmdb-ca   True    61s

#. Now use the following command to find out the certificates validity dates,
   substituting Secrets names if necessary:

   .. code:: bash

      $ {
        kubectl get secret/my-cluster-name-ssl-internal -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -inform pem -noout -text | grep "Not After"
        kubectl get secret/my-cluster-name-ssl -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -inform pem -noout -text | grep "Not After"

>         }

Reviewer 3: it might be a bit shorter 
`kubectl get secret/monitoring-ssl -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -noout -dates`
